README.md, before:

# What is this?

A blog platform designed to run on cloud serverless PaaS Environment.

Currently supporting Google Cloud.

The server is currently running my personal blog at: [https://sasagu.com](https://sasagu.com).

# Highlight

- Run it in a highly scalable, reliable and fast PaaS environment.
- Running systems on PaaS platform is cost effective. Zero costs when idle. Less than $1 running my blog.
- Full mobile responsive support 
- Markdown support
- Full screen article editor with Markdown preview and AI support.
- AI integration (AI article grammar + AI summary)
- Image Manager
- Built-in Analytics
- RSS feed

# Technology Stack - Backend

- Java 21
- Javalin Server
- Google Cloud App Engine, Cloud Storage, Datastore (Firestore), Gemini API 
- Maven

# Technology Stack - Frontend

- React JS
- TypeScript
- Tailwind CSS
- DaisyUI
- Vite Build
- NPM

# Requirements to run

- An account with Google Cloud Platform with billing enabled.
- A project in Google Cloud
- Enable 'Cloud Storage', 'Datastore' and 'Gemini API' within the Google Cloud project.

# How to deploy

- Install gcloud CLI and initialize your environment:

```
	gcloud init
```

- Create an App Engine application, if you haven't done it yet.

```
	gcloud app create
```

- By default, the '(default)' datastore is in non-native 'Datastore' mode. Convert it to Firestore native. 
Optionally, you can delete the existing one and create a new database in navive firestore mode, setting your
desired db location. 
Name it '(default)'.

```
	gcloud firestore databases update --type=firestore-native
```

- Add needed indexes.

```
	gcloud firestore indexes composite create --collection-group=articles --field-config=field-path=status,order=ascending --field-config=field-path=published_at_millisec,order=descending
```


- Edit pom.xml, update app engine config:
	
```
	<configuration>
		<version>0-1-0</version>
		<!-- 
			set your google cloud project id here.
			Or set it with system property.
			Example: clean package -Dapp.deploy.projectId=[your_project_id] appengine:deploy
		-->
		<projectId></projectId>
	</configuration>	
```

- Run this Maven command/goal to deploy it to Google App Engine: 	

```
	clean package appengine:deploy
```
	
- Once deployed, access the url of the project to see the blog page. Go to Google Cloud Log Viewer. If you see the following, 
then the application was deployed and initialized successfully.

```
	***************************************************************
	* Initial Data Preparation Completed.
	***************************************************************
```

- The initialization process should have created some data. Go to '(default)' datastore to verify the data created.

# How to use images on your site.

1. Create a Cloud Storage bucket.

2. Use following gloud commang to grant 'public access'

```
gcloud storage buckets add-iam-policy-binding gs://BUCKET_NAME --member=allUsers --role=roles/storage.objectViewer
```
	
# Things to consider

- src/main/appengine/app.yaml - This configures the instance that will be deployed to Google App Engine. 
By default, it creates an F1 class instance with max 1 instance running.

- Data will be stored in Google Cloud Datastore.

Commit message:

MongoDB support for some of Dao. Changed structure so it can be switched. Added Dockerfile for container.

README.md, after:

# What is this?

A blog platform designed to run on cloud serverless PaaS Environment.

Currently supporting Google Cloud.

(Local testing is available using a Docker container with MongoDB.)

The server is currently running my personal blog at: [https://sasagu.com](https://sasagu.com).

# Highlight

- Run it in a highly scalable, reliable and fast PaaS environment.
- Running systems on PaaS platform is cost effective. Zero costs when idle. Less than $1 running my blog.
- Full mobile responsive support 
- Markdown support
- Full screen article editor with Markdown preview and AI support.
- AI integration (AI article grammar + AI summary)
- Image Manager
- Built-in Analytics
- RSS feed

# Technology Stack - Backend

- Java 21
- Javalin Server
- Google Cloud App Engine, Cloud Storage, Datastore (Firestore), Gemini API 
- Maven

# Technology Stack - Frontend

- React JS
- TypeScript
- Tailwind CSS
- DaisyUI
- Vite Build
- NPM

# Test it locally with Docker container

For testing purpose, you can run this system locally with docker container.

It uses MongoDB data store. AI and Analytics are disabled.

Run it with following commands:

```
	docker network create sb-network
	
	docker run -d --network sb-network --name sb-mongo -p 27018:27017 mongo:latest
	
	docker run -d -p 8080:8080 --network sb-network --name sb-serverless-blog sasagu/serverless-blog

```

Access the app from `http://localhost:8080`

# Running it on Google Cloud environment

**Requirements:**

- An account with Google Cloud Platform with billing enabled.
- A project in Google Cloud
- Enable 'Cloud Storage', 'Datastore' and 'Gemini API' within the Google Cloud project.

**How to deploy**

- Install gcloud CLI and initialize your environment:

```
	gcloud init
```

- Create an App Engine application, if you haven't done it yet.

```
	gcloud app create
```

- By default, the '(default)' datastore is in non-native 'Datastore' mode. Convert it to Firestore native. 
Optionally, you can delete the existing one and create a new database in native firestore mode, setting your
desired db location. 
Name it '(default)'.

```
	gcloud firestore databases update --type=firestore-native
```

- Add needed indexes.

```
	gcloud firestore indexes composite create --collection-group=articles --field-config=field-path=status,order=ascending --field-config=field-path=published_at_millisec,order=descending
```


- Edit pom.xml, update app engine config:
	
```
	<configuration>
		<version>0-1-0</version>
		<!-- 
			set your google cloud project id here.
			Or set it with system property.
			Example: clean package -Dapp.deploy.projectId=[your_project_id] appengine:deploy
		-->
		<projectId></projectId>
	</configuration>	
```

- Run this Maven command/goal to deploy it to Google App Engine: 	

```
	clean package appengine:deploy
```
	
- Once deployed, access the url of the project to see the blog page. Go to Google Cloud Log Viewer. If you see the following, 
then the application was deployed and initialized successfully.

```
	***************************************************************
	* Initial Data Preparation Completed.
	***************************************************************
```

- The initialization process should have created some data. Go to '(default)' datastore to verify the data created.

# How to use images on your site.

1. Create a Cloud Storage bucket.

2. Use following gloud commang to grant 'public access'

```
gcloud storage buckets add-iam-policy-binding gs://BUCKET_NAME --member=allUsers --role=roles/storage.objectViewer
```
	
# Things to consider

- src/main/appengine/app.yaml - This configures the instance that will be deployed to Google App Engine. 
By default, it creates an F1 class instance with max 1 instance running.

- Data will be stored in Google Cloud Datastore.
